---
layout: post
title: "Software"
description: "Hi there, if you have a minute, read this. Or don't, if you don't."
category: General
tags: [software,coding]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Thoughts on Software
============
And not blogging
-------------------

I see a great analogy for software in the world of music. Sometimes people have this attitude that all the software or hardware people could need or even want has already been built. I've heard programmers complain that all anyone does these days is paste together existing libraries. I'm not sure how that argument is any more valid today than it was in [Charle's Babbage's](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Babbage) time, considering his difference engine was *merely* a crank powered implementation of [Newton's method](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newton_polynomial).

Sometimes I'm staggered by the underestimation of the power of creativity. After all, in music there's only 12 notes in a scale… yet somehow new music is always being made.

Software has a power behind it (namely, our CPUs) unmatched in the known universe and unprecendented in history. And we've only just scratched the surface of what is possible. When I was a kid I was taken in by the warm glow of the green cathode ray display on my parent's Apple IIe and today I'm taken in by the (still relatively scarce) retina display. The difference is astounding. Not all of computation is visible but you can see its impact in the world of video games, where I hardly even need to say the rest. Graphics today rival photography and even reality in some cases.

Man, I love computers but more than that I love software. I love writing it, I love reading it, I love solving problems and fixing bugs. I love that it's impossible to know everything, and that if I need something I don't know I can learn it. I love the ride, watching the world of people like me working on their corners of the internet and seeing the triumph of success and heartbreak of failure.

Most of all, I love creating code. I love that I can write out how I think something should happen at 3 billion cycles a second, that I can watch it execute and blow up, and that I can smooth it out until it does exactly what I want. I love that I can write automated tests to make sure I'm not breaking things as I move along. I can do all of this at a breakneck pace sitting in my chair at home listening to Eminem.

Anyway, I guess those are kind of my thoughts on software. I'm not sure about the blogging gig, I really just like to write code and I've usually got my hands full with clients so you probably won't see much here. But, hey, if you want to hear more about how badass computers are you can always drop me a line. 

Peace.